# GW Glitch_Identification_Subtraction


This folder contains information of gravitational wave glitch identification and subtraction methods that I am trying to develop and developed. The core code, applied for acheiving this, is "SHAPES". For this core code, you can go to the link: "https://github.com/mohanty-sd/SHAPES". It is written by Prof. Soumya Mohanty. If you want to know further about this code, you can contact him. Also, one can consult "Adaptive spline fitting with particle swarm optimization" by Soumya Mohanty & Ethan Fahnestock. The link for this paper: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00180-020-01022-x 

Amplitude Threshold: This code, using the amplitude threshold method, is applied on GW170817, Low Frequency Blip, Koi Fish, Tomte, Slow Scattering Glitch, Fast Scattering Glitch, and extremely loud Glitch. For automating this method, I have used amplitude-based assumption. It is not fully automated yet. There is still some human intervention needed in some places. Although it is a very simple assumption, it works pretty fine on the glitches that I have tested. For knowing more about the "amplitude threshold" method, please see section 3.3.1 (amplitude threshold) of chapter III in the "Glitch Estimation and Removal Using Adaptive Spline Fitting and Wavelet Shrinkage on the Gravitational Wave Data".

Bestfit-Spectrohgram Threshold: This code, using the bestfit-spectrogram threshold method, still needs to be applied to Scattering glitches. The bestfit-spectrogram threshold method works better than the amplitude-based assumption. Bestfit is a quantitative fitness number, which is decided by 'SHAPES' when it is fitting the splines on the data. The result came from the bestfit-spectrogram threshold saving more signal in GW170817 than the amplitude threshold method. Also, human intervention is very less in this code to complete the process, which is a jump from the amplitude threshold method. However, it needs much more computational power. For learning more about the "bestfit-spectrogram threshold" method, please see section 3.3.2 (bestfit-spectrogramm threshold) of Chapter III in the "Glitch Estimation and Removal Using Adaptive Spline Fitting and Wavelet Shrinkage on the Gravitational Wave Data".
